# Adaptive-Noise cancellation algorithm 
This a project based on adaptive noise cancelltion which uses four different algorithm of noise cancellation 
1. LMS  ( Least Mean Square )
2. NLMS  ( Normalised Least mean Square )
3. LMS/F  ( Least Mean Square Fourth )
4. VSS LMS  ( Variable Step Size Least mean square algorithm )
The algorithm is capable of running in any PC with MATLAB software installed. In addition,the results obtained were convincing. The audio of the output speech signals were highly satisfactory and validated the goals of this research. 
In the simulation of LMS, it was observed that in the starting of the signal the filters output was not tracing the desired signal and the error signal was also high. But after some time duration the filter adapts to the signal and the output of the filter is almost tracing the desired signal and hence reducing the error signal to very low value.
We have also observed that the performance of the NLMS algorithm is influenced by two important parameters, i.e., the normalized step-size and regularization terms .The first one reflects a trade-off between convergence rate and miss adjustment of the algorithm. The second parameter is essential in all ill-posed and ill-conditioned problems such as in adaptive filters; it depends on the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the system. Both these parameters can be controlled (i.e., making them time dependent) in order to address the conflicting requirement of fast convergence and low miss adjustment. 
In VSS-LMS, an approximate analysis of convergence and steady-state performance for zero-mean stationary Gaussian inputs and for nonstationary optimal weight vector is provided. Simulation results comparing the proposed algorithm to current variable step-size algorithms clearly indicate its superior performance for cases of stationary environments. For nonstationary environments, our algorithm performs  well .
The behavior of the least mean fourth (LMF) algorithm is of special interest. In comparing this algorithm to the LMS algorithm, when both are set to have exactly the same time constants for the weight relaxation process, the LMF algorithm, under some circumstances, will have a substantially lower weight noise than the LMS algorithm. It is possible, therefore, that a minimum mean fourth error algorithm can do a better job of least squares estimation than a mean square error algorithm. This intriguing concept has implications for all forms of adaptive algorithms, whether they are based on steepest descent or otherwise.
The main goal of this research is to investigate the application of an algorithm based on adaptive filtering in noise cancellation problem. 
